title: Incentives within Competitions for Social Good
citation: McGregor, S. (2020). Incentives within Competitions for Social Good. In Workshop on Global Challenges in Economics and Computation. Virtual Conference.
authors: McGregor, S.
venue: Workshop on Global Challenges in Economics and Computation (GCEC'20)
video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jO3-jHdxc5Y
hide_tags: cv-tag-talk cv-tag-invited cv-tag-competition cv-tag-ethics
year: 2020

> The main idea of this workshop is that we should more deliberately think about the problem of facilitating interdisciplinary collaborations as a market design problem. We believe this is our research community’s path to greatest societal impact—we should focus on building the engine that allows people across disciplines to tackle important social issues, and in the process, expand the technical expertise of aspiring researchers in parts of the world where it’s currently lacking. Our goal is to take a project-based approach and provide apprenticeship learning to effectively mentor people into having novel intersections of domain and technical expertise.

My contribution to this topic is the attached video, which had live follow up questions. It covers 

Part 1, *IBM Watson AI XPRIZE: High Stakes "Academic Review"*: Here I detailed the collaborative ranking method I developed for the IBM Watson AI XPRIZE. The method was successful in efficiently selecting the strongest set of candidate teams for advancement in the IBM Watson AI XPRIZE.

Part 2, *Inverting the Competition*: This section was forward looking and explored approaches to competing over the production of useful data rather than useful models. This work is still in the early stages.

You can find more information on the workshop [here](https://www.gcec.org/) and the complete video of the presentation is attached.
