title: AI for Good via Machine Learning Challenges
citation: Banifatemi, A., McGregor, S., Chklovski, T., and Delisle, L. (2019). AI for Good via Machine Learning Challenges. In Neural Information Processing Systems Workshop on Competitions in Machine Learning. Vancouver, Canada.
authors: Banifatemi, A., McGregor, S., Chklovski, T., and Delisle, L.
venue: Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS) Workshop on Competitions in Machine Learning
hide_tags: cv-tag-talk cv-tag-invited cv-tag-competition cv-tag-ethics
year: 2019

In this invited talk I presented with three other people on our individual efforts at improving the world through incentivized AI competitions. I delivered my invited talk in two parts,

Part 1, *IBM Watson AI XPRIZE: High Stakes "Academic Review"*: Here I detailed the collaborative ranking method I developed for the IBM Watson AI XPRIZE, which I will prepare for publication towards the end of 2020. The method was successful in efficiently selecting the strongest set of candidate teams for advancement in the IBM Watson AI XPRIZE.

Part 2, *Inverting the Competition*: This section was forward looking and explored approaches to competing over the production of useful data rather than useful models. This work is still in the early stages.

You can find more information on the workshop [here](https://nips.cc/Conferences/2019/Schedule?showEvent=13180) and the abstract for our invited talk is below.


    "AI for Good" efforts (e.g., applications work in sustainability, education, health, financial inclusion, etc.) have demonstrated the capacity to simultaneously advance intelligent system research and the greater good. Unfortunately, the majority of research that could find motivation in real-world "good" problems still center on problems with industrial or toy problem performance baselines. 
    Competitions can serve as an important shaping reward for steering academia towards research that is simultaneously impactful on our state of knowledge and the state of the world.  This talk covers three aspects of AI for Good competitions. First, we survey current efforts within the AI for Good application space as a means of identifying current and future opportunities. Next we discuss how more qualitative notions of "Good" can be used as benchmarks in addition to more quantitative competition objective functions. Finally, we will provide notes on building coalitions of domain experts to develop and guide socially-impactful competitions in machine learning.
